# Pepperbell Leaf Disease Detection

## Abstract
In classifying various plant diseases, Great success has been achieved through deep learning with convolutional neural networks (CNNs). This paper offers an overview analysis of current plant-based disease detection systems. In this analysis, using a CNN, equipped with a bell pepper plant image dataset, a variety of simulation approaches for neurons and layers were used. Plant diseases cause significant growth and economic losses, as well as a reduction in the quality and quantity of agricultural products. In monitoring large crop fields, the detection of plant diseases in a day has received increasing attention. Good plant health and disease identification data through effective management strategies may promote disease control. This approach would increase the production of crops. Bugs known as aphids spread viruses. That's why control of insects is so important to control pepper plant problems. Pepper-related diseases will devastate your entire garden like a virus or wilt. When you find issues with the pepper crop, the best thing to do is destroy the infected plant before it infects the entire garden. As it is understood Once trained on larger datasets, convolutional networks may learn features, there is no need to worry about image quality.

## Introduction
In the era of artificial intelligence, deep learning, and computer vision play a vital role in leaf-based disease identification and categorization. Leaf diseases are the most dangerous calamity that has direct detrimental effects on farmers’ lives, and consequently on gross yield production and the world economy. Nutritious food for all is a great challenge faced by the farmer and agricultural research community. Bell peppers can be categorized as fruit or vegetable that is universally available and full of various nutrients like carbs, vitamins, and fat. Leaves of bell pepper plants infected by bacterial spot diseases affect their yield significantly. The aim of this study is to classify bacterial spots and healthy images of bell peppers’ leaf images taken from the PlantVillage dataset using CNN-based pre-trained architecture. Two CNN architectures, i.e., VGG16 and VGG19 are applied through transfer learning in the binary classification of leaf-based disease. A total of 2475 images are used for training, validation, and testing purposes, with 1478 healthy images and 997 images with bacterial disease spots. Although both VGG16 and VGG19 achieved good performances, VGG16 architecture performs slightly better than VGG19.
